If we wanna use the static images,
like what if we wanna do this in MDX?
Well, fortunately,
MDX is so kind of central,
that gatsby just kind of
built this into the flow.
They'll automatically do this for us.
We don't have to do anything at all.
So we could use a static image,
right, and that would be fine.
That's a completely
acceptable thing to do.
And if we wanted to do that,
we would be able to, let's say,
open up our first blog,
and we can import, Boy,
I can't spell it, import,
static image from gatsby plugin image.
And then down here, I can just use it.
Right?
There it is.
We've now made a blog.
But I don't even wanna have to do that,
I wanna make it so much easier.
So instead, I want to be able to
import my images, like markdown.
So I want to be able to say,
my image, and like,
Images, smashburger.
Nope, I got my path wrong.
And I got my path wrong because
we haven't configured this yet.
So, and this is where it starts, like
markdown, I would expect to just work but
it's not actually relative because of the
way that these end up moving, and these
end up becoming static, and so there's
a little bit of like rigmarole there.
So to work around that,
what we're gonna do is we are going to
install a plugin called
gatsby-remark-images.
So remark is a library for
transforming markdown.
Without getting too deep into it,
it can break remark into what's
called an abstract syntax tree,
which is just a JSON representation
of what a markdown file is.
And then because it's a predictable
representation of that tree,
we can change stuff in it without
breaking the markdown file.
So what the remark images plugin lets
us do is find images in markdown,
turn them into transformed gatsby images,
and replace them in place.
So on the backend, it does a bunch.
On our end, we install this plugin and
we're done.
So let's get into the gatsby config.
And we're going to install
this in two places.
First, we are going to install it,
let's put it, where's MDX?
We're gonna put it right above MDX,
gatsby remark images.
And then inside,
we're also going to configure gatsby
remark plugins because we want MDX
to run this internally as well.
So, we are going to, let's see gatsby
remark plugins is an array and
we're going to resolve
gatsby remark images.
And I wanna set as,
just kind of basic guardrail,
a maximum width of 1200 pixels.
If something comes in through
markdown that is an enormous image,
like somebody does just copy a unsplash
image in and it's 4500 pixels wide.
We don't want to load that.
Let's just knock it down
to be 1200 pixels max so
that the site doesn't blow up on us.
So now we've got gatsby remark images.
We've got it installed there.
So let's restart the browser, Here.
And I'm gonna put in a different
image into my first blog.
Let's do one of another corgi.
So this is a corgi lying down near
a fountain, and there's cherry tree,
it's a great image, and
we are just gonna do a relative image now.
We're going to go back,
get into the images folder, and
then we're gonna find
this image by shiangling.
And as you can see,
this defaults to the blurred images type.
So if I go to network and slow that
down a bit, so we can see it happen.
It shows up as a blurred image and
then it'll pop in as unblurred,
there's, yeah.
But that all worked.
And if we look at the source, we can see,
it did gatsby responsive image wrapper,
and it's got the pieces that we
want here with a source set.
Now this isn't quite as full featured
as the one with the picture and
the modern fallbacks.
But you know what, for
two lines worth of code, it's not bad.
So that's pretty great.
And if we did wanna control it with like
the different blurred backgrounds or
we wanna add different styles or
things, we can do that,
we would just do that through using a
static image instead of a markdown image.
The markdown images are gonna be full
width in your content area by default,
so they'll always kind of do this.